Initial "wireframe" for model contracts (#2890)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/contract.md

---
resource_types: [models]
datatype: "{<dictionary>}"
default_value: {contract: false}
id: "contract"
---

## Related documentation
- [What is a model contract?](publish/model-contracts)
- [Defining `columns`](resource-properties/columns)
- [Defining `constraints`](resource-properties/constraints)

<!-- TODO: move some of this content elsewhere, and update to reflect new proposed syntax -->

:::info Beta functionality
This functionality is new in v1.5! These docs exist to provide a high-level overview of what's to come. Specific syntax is liable to change.

In particular:
- The current name of the `contract` config is `constraints_enabled`.

> - "Pre flight" check includes column `name` only, and is order-sensitive. We aim to add `data_type` and make it insensitive to column order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Prerequisite check includes column `name` only and is order-sensitive. The goal is to add `data_type` and make it insensitive to column order.
```

> - The prerequisite check includes column `name` only and is order-sensitive. The goal is to add `data_type` and make it insensitive to column order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The verification check includes column `name` only and is order-sensitive. The goal is to add `data_type` and make it insensitive to column order.
```

> - The verification check includes column `name` only and is order-sensitive. The goal is to add `data_type` and make it insensitive to column order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The "preflight" check only includes column `name` and is order-sensitive. The goal is to add `data_type` and make it insensitive to column order.
```

- `name` and `data_type` for every column
- additional [`constraints`](resource-properties/constraints), as supported for this materialization + data platform

:::caution Under construction 🚧
More to come!
:::

You can manage data type constraints on your models using the `constraints_enabled` configuration. This configuration is available on all models, and is disabled by default. When enabled, dbt will automatically add constraints to your models based on the data types of the columns in your model's schema. This is a great way to ensure your data is always in the correct format. For example, if you have a column in your model that is defined as a `date` data type, dbt will automatically add a data type constraint to that column to ensure the data in that column is always a valid date. If you want to add a `not null` constraint to a column in a preventative manner rather than as a test, you can add the `not null` value to the column definition in your model's schema: `constraints: ['not null']`.

## When to use constraints vs. tests

> Constraints serve as a **preventative** measure against bad data quality **before** the dbt model is (re)built. It is only limited by the respective database's funcionality and the data types that are supported. Examples of a constraint: `not null`, `unique`, `primary key`, `foreign key`, `check`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Constraints serve as a **preventative** measure against bad data quality **before** the dbt model is (re)built. It is only limited by the respective database's functionality and the data types that are supported. Examples of a constraint: `not null`, `unique`, `primary key`, `foreign key`, `check`
```
